README - ESP Package Manager (EPM) 1.6
--------------------------------------

WHAT IS EPM?

    EPM is the software packaging tool that we now use at Easy Software
    Products.  It is a simple tool that generates compressed tar files
    containing installation and removal scripts, a README and license
    file, and a tar file containing the actual software files.  EPM can
    also generate patch distributions and keeps track of software that
    is installed using the EPM-generated scripts.


WHY ANOTHER SOFTWARE PACKAGING TOOL?

    We developed EPM because we are sick of developing and testing N
    different software distributions for the operating systems we
    support.  Also, when we started looking at selling software for
    Linux we saw that there are at least four different "standard"
    distribution formats, and none of them are compatible with the
    other.  Also, many of these formats required that you install the
    software on your development system (or perform some voodoo magic)
    before you could build your distribution!

    Clearly we needed something that could be used for all platforms,
    *without* requiring special software packages on the customer's
    system!


WHAT IS REQUIRED FOR EPM?

    On your development system you just need a C compiler, a make
    program, the Bourne (or Korn or Bash) shell, and GNU zip.

    On the destination system your customers/users will need the Bourne
    (or Korn or Bash) shell, a tar program, and GNU zip. The first two
    are standard items, and GNU zip is being shipped by most vendors as
    well.


HOW DO I COMPILE EPM?

    EPM uses GNU autoconf to configure itself for your system.  To build
    it, use:

        ./configure ENTER
	make ENTER

    Once EPM is compiled you can type:

        su ENTER
	make install ENTER

    to install the software in /usr/bin.


HOW DO I USE EPM?

    Please look at the EPM man page; a preformatted copy is included in
    the file "epm.1":

        more epm.1

    An example of an EPM software list file can be found in the CUPS
    software distribution at:

        http://www.cups.org/software.html


DO I HAVE TO PAY TO DISTRIBUTE SOFTWARE USING EPM?

    No!  EPM is free software and any installations you create are
    unencumbered by licensing of any kind (not even the GPL.)


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.6?

    EPM 1.6 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.5:

	- Installation archives were missing the ".ss" and ".pss"
	  files that were added to support diskless installations.
	- The scripts didn't handle removing distributions that
	  had no non-shared components.
	- The scripts didn't return a non-zero exit status if the
	  user did not agree with the license or want to install.

WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.5?

    EPM 1.5 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.4:

	- Now support diskless installations; all files destined for
	  /usr are put in a separate archive and are installed (or
	  removed) only if /usr is read+write.

WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.4?

    EPM 1.4 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.3:

	- Now map group "sys" to "system" for Digital UNIX and "root" for
	  Linux.
	- The initialization script installation now checks for the presence
	  of run levels 4 and 5.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.3?

    EPM 1.3 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.2:

	- Now use the "p" option to tar to ensure that file permissions
	  are created properly.  This is normally the default for the
	  super-user, but not under Digital UNIX!
	- Initialization scripts are now linked to run levels 0, 2, 3, 4,
	  and 5.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.2?

    EPM 1.2 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.1:

	- Patch distributions were not correctly named.
	- Added new "initialization script" file types "i" and "I". The
	  new file types place the scripts in /etc/software/init.d and
	  make links to the appropriate system-specific rc.d
	  directories and run the scripts to start and stop things
	  accordingly.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.1?

    EPM 1.1 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.0:

	- The "whoami" command isn't always in the user's path, so
	  scripts now use a hard-coded path (setup by the configure
	  script) to the program.
	- Added a check for IRIX64 (64-bit kernel instead of n32.)
	- The %system directive now supports release numbers, e.g.
	  "irix-6.5".
	- The %system directive now supports "!" (not) operator so you
	  can do things like "%system irix !irix-6.5" to select any
	  IRIX release except IRIX 6.5.
	- Files that already exist on the system are renamed to
	  "filename.O" on installation and back to "filename" when
	  removed (except for config files, which don't overwrite and
	  aren't removed.)
	- Prerequisites (%required directive) now look for required
	  product in the current directory and install it automatically
	  if it is available and not already installed.
	- The copyright notice in the installation script was not
	  displayed if the user used the "now" option.


REPORTING PROBLEMS

    Report all problems and submit all patches to "epm@easysw.com".


COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE INFO

    EPM is Copyright 1999 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
    any later version.
 
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
