README - ESP Package Manager (EPM) 2.0.1
----------------------------------------

WHAT IS EPM?

    EPM is the software packaging tool that we now use at Easy Software
    Products.  It is a simple tool that generates software and patch
    distributions in various formats, including:

	- AT&T Software Packages ("pkg"), used by Solaris.
	- Debian Package Manager ("dpkg")
	- HP-UX Software Packages ("swinstall" or "depot")
	- IRIX Software Manager ("inst" or "tardist")
	- Portable (installation and removal scripts with tar files)
        - Red Hat Package Manager ("RPM")

    EPM also includes a graphical "setup" program that can be provided
    with your distributions to make installation of more than one
    package a snap.


WHY ANOTHER SOFTWARE PACKAGING TOOL?

    We developed EPM because we are tired of developing and testing N
    different software distributions, each with their own input files
    and setup requirements.
    
    Also, when we started looking at selling software for Linux we saw
    that there are at least four different "standard" distribution
    formats, and none of them are compatible with the other.  Clearly
    we needed something that could be used for all platforms, *without*
    requiring special software packages on the customer's system!


WHAT IS REQUIRED FOR EPM?

    On your development system you just need a C compiler, a make
    program, the Bourne (or Korn or Bash) shell, and GNU zip.

    The graphical setup program needs a C++ compiler and the FLTK
    library, available at "http://www.fltk.org".

    EPM can generate so-called "portable" distributions that are based
    on shell scripts and tar files.  For these types of distributions
    your customers/users will need the Bourne (or Korn or Bash) shell,
    a tar program, and GNU zip. The first two are standard items, and
    GNU zip is being shipped by most vendors as well.


HOW DO I COMPILE EPM?

    EPM uses GNU autoconf to configure itself for your system.  To build
    it, use:

        ./configure ENTER
	make ENTER

    Once EPM is compiled you can type:

        su ENTER
	make install ENTER

    to install the software in /usr/bin.


HOW DO I USE EPM?

    Please look at the EPM man page; a preformatted copy is included in
    the file "epm.1":

        more epm.1

    An example EPM software list file is provided with this distribution
    in the file "epm.list".


DO I HAVE TO PAY TO DISTRIBUTE SOFTWARE USING EPM?

    No!  EPM is free software and any installations you create are
    unencumbered by licensing of any kind (not even the GPL.)


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 2.1?

    EPM 2.1 adds the following features, fixes, and changes to
    EPM 2.0:

	- Moved setup program to /usr/lib/epm ($prefix/lib/epm) to
	  avoid name clash with RedHat setup program.
	- Added Debian distribution files from Jeff Licquia.
	- Configure script changes for GCC 2.95.x and Solaris.
	- Portability fixes.
	- Now look for RPMS in different "standard" locations
	  after building them; the RPMDIR environment variable
	  can be used to override the default locations.
	- The sample project list file (epm.list) was missing
	  from the 2.0 distribution.
	- Now check for write permission in /usr by writing a
	  test file (/usr/.writetest); this should make diskless
	  client installations more reliable.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 2.0?

    EPM 2.0 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.7:

	- New "-f" option to generate vendor-specific software
	  distributions.  Now support AT&T, Debian, HP-UX, IRIX,
	  and Red Hat software distributions.
	- New "-s" option to include the ESP Software Wizard (GUI)
	  with portable distributions.
	- The "-t" option (test) is no longer supported.
	- New "-v" option to control the amount of information
	  that is reported.
	- New graphical setup program for portable distributions.
	- New "description" directive.
	- New "format" directive.
	- New "include" directive.
	- New "replaces" directive.
	- Portable distributions should now be more portable.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.7?

    EPM 1.7 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.6:

	- The %requires and %incompat directives now support
	  specification of files as well as products.
	- The init script installation code now creates a link in the
	  init.d subdirectory to avoid frustrating well-trained
	  fingers.
	- The progress messages for shared and non-shared software were
	  the same.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.6?

    EPM 1.6 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.5:

	- Installation archives were missing the ".ss" and ".pss"
	  files that were added to support diskless installations.
	- The scripts didn't handle removing distributions that
	  had no non-shared components.
	- The scripts didn't return a non-zero exit status if the
	  user did not agree with the license or want to install.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.5?

    EPM 1.5 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.4:

	- Now support diskless installations; all files destined for
	  /usr are put in a separate archive and are installed (or
	  removed) only if /usr is read+write.

WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.4?

    EPM 1.4 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.3:

	- Now map group "sys" to "system" for Digital UNIX and "root" for
	  Linux.
	- The initialization script installation now checks for the presence
	  of run levels 4 and 5.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.3?

    EPM 1.3 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.2:

	- Now use the "p" option to tar to ensure that file permissions
	  are created properly.  This is normally the default for the
	  super-user, but not under Digital UNIX!
	- Initialization scripts are now linked to run levels 0, 2, 3, 4,
	  and 5.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.2?

    EPM 1.2 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.1:

	- Patch distributions were not correctly named.
	- Added new "initialization script" file types "i" and "I". The
	  new file types place the scripts in /etc/software/init.d and
	  make links to the appropriate system-specific rc.d
	  directories and run the scripts to start and stop things
	  accordingly.


WHAT'S NEW IN EPM 1.1?

    EPM 1.1 adds the following features and fixes to EPM 1.0:

	- The "whoami" command isn't always in the user's path, so
	  scripts now use a hard-coded path (setup by the configure
	  script) to the program.
	- Added a check for IRIX64 (64-bit kernel instead of n32.)
	- The %system directive now supports release numbers, e.g.
	  "irix-6.5".
	- The %system directive now supports "!" (not) operator so you
	  can do things like "%system irix !irix-6.5" to select any
	  IRIX release except IRIX 6.5.
	- Files that already exist on the system are renamed to
	  "filename.O" on installation and back to "filename" when
	  removed (except for config files, which don't overwrite and
	  aren't removed.)
	- Prerequisites (%required directive) now look for required
	  product in the current directory and install it automatically
	  if it is available and not already installed.
	- The copyright notice in the installation script was not
	  displayed if the user used the "now" option.


REPORTING PROBLEMS

    Report all problems and submit all patches to "epm@easysw.com".


COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE INFO

    EPM is Copyright 1999-2000 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
    any later version.
 
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
